Week 4: Programming Assignment 4 Peer Assessment Description

Due Monday, June 23rd, 2014

You will be asked to evaluate five other student's projects as well as
do a self assessment of your own project. If you do not assess the
work of others, then you will receive a 20% penalty for your solution.

As you do your evaluation, please keep an open mind and focus on the
positive. Our goal is not to find every way to deduct points over
small deviations from the requirements or for legitimate differences
in implementation styles, etc. Look for ways to give points when it's
clear that the submitter has given a good faith effort to do the
project, and when it's likely that they've succeeded.

Review the submitter's source code. Since you did your own project,
you know where the changes should be and you have a good idea of the
kind of method calls and work flows that should be in the submitter's
code. Remember that they may have done things differently than you
did. That's fine.

Next, get a copy of the grading driver files from 

https://github.com/douglascraigschmidt/POSA-14/tree/master/grading-drivers/week-4-assignment-3

and copy the submitter's SimpleSemaphore.java and PingPongRight.java
files into your IDE (which may have been given a random, odd name by
Coursera, so you'll need to rename it) and store it in the
src/edu/vuum/mocca/ directory.  I recommend scanning the submitted
code to ensure there are no changes other than adding the appropriate
code as indicated by the "TODO" comments. A quick way to check for
this automatically is to run "diff" on the original files and the
submitted files to make sure all the changes are as expected, in the
expected places in the code. Then make sure everything compiles
properly in your environment. Note that the grading drivers are in a
different location than the original skeletons to ensure that all
submissions are tested against the "master" regression tests and
minimize the amount of code that comes from "the wild".

Once you've reviewed the code against the rubric described below
please try to run it, walking through the steps called out in the
grading video that we'll create in each week's "VIrtual Office Hours"
(see item #38 in the POSA MOOC FAQ at
http://www.coursera.org/course/posa for info on Virtual Office
Hours). I suggest you make a fresh Eclipse workspace when doing this,
so that the submitter's code is isolated and easily distinguishable
from yours. One way you can do that is to select File > Open Workspace
> Browse > New Folder. This will lead to a new, empty Eclipse
workspace. Then you can copy that submitter's SimpleSemaphore.java and
PingPongRight.java files into this new workspace.  Also, it's
recommended to run the submitted code a virtual machine sandbox to
further isolate it from causing harm.

And again, remember that most everyone is working very hard and
putting in a serious effort. When in doubt, err on the side of giving
too many points, rather than giving too few.
